\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename pak.info
@include version.texi
@settitle MakePAK @value{VERSION}
@c op = options
@defcodeindex op
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for MakePAK (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}), which is
a tool for creating Quake .PAK archives.

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Entertaining Software, Inc.

@quotation
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Archiving
@direntry
* pak: (pak)Invoking pak.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title MakePAK
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Luiji Maryo (@email{luiji@@users.sourceforge.net})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top MakePAK

This manual is for MakePAK (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}).
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview:: General purpose and information.
* Invoking pak:: Invoking the MakePAK utility.
* Reporting bugs:: Sending bug reports, feature suggestions, and patches.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: Terms for copying this document.
* Concept index:: Index of concepts, programs, options, etc.
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The MakePAK program (@url{http://github.com/Luiji/MakePAK/}) archives specified
files into a single Quake .PAK archive.

@node Invoking pak
@chapter Invoking @command{pak}

@pindex pak
@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{pak} program is:

@example
pak @var{option} @dots{} @var{file} @dots{}
@end example

With no options, @command{pak} says "no input files" and sets exit status to 1.

@command{pak} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --help
@itemx -h
@opindex --greeting
@opindex -g
Print an information help message on standard output and then exit successfully.

@item --version
@itemx -v
@opindex --version
@opindex -v
Print the version number and licensing information of MakePAK on standard output
and then exit successfully.

@item --output
@itemx -o
@opindex --output
@opindex -o
Set file to output .PAK file contents. You can also redirect the output on some
shells with standard output redirection.

@item --recursive
@itemx -r
@opindex --recursive
@opindex -r
When a directory is specified, add all of the files within it recursively
instead of skipping it as usual.

@item --verbose
@itemx -V
@opindex --verbose
@opindex -V
List each file as it is added.

@end table

If @option{-o}/@option{--option} is specified multiple times, the later calls
will take precendence.

@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs or suggest enhancements for MakePAK, please either send
electronic mail to @email{luiji@@users.sourceforge.net} or, preferably, use the
bug/feature request tracker at @url{http://github.com/Luiji/MakePAK/issues/}.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers to
reproduce the problem. Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version number of MakePAK (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{pak --version}}) and any other program(s) or manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying installation
      directories.
@item Exact modifications that you have done to MakePAK, if any.
@item Anything else that you think would be useful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it. It is better to
include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff -c}}
(@pxref{Top,, Overview, diff, Comparing and Merging Files}). Do @strong{not} add
entries to the @file{ChangeLog}, as it is generated from the Git commit history
during releases.

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi

@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
